- Hello, YouTube.
Hello, everyone.
Thanks for being here in the live show.
If you got questions or comments,
put them in the chat, please.
Ned, welcome back to Talk Python To Me.
- Hey, thanks.
Thanks for having me.
This is always fun.
- Yeah, and it's always a good time to have you on the show.
Got such interesting things to talk about.
I think we've previously spoken about coverage.py,
beginners and experts, and several other things,
probably if I go back through the old search engine.
- I've had many opinions about many things.
- Perfect.
Well, we're looking forward to hearing your opinions on,
the title might suggest on the readme,
but I think maybe we've got to expand it
to a couple of other markdown files,
maybe on a project as well to get the holistic picture.
But basically, we're gonna talk about tools
and ideas and techniques
for making your project more accessible,
feeling more polished and welcoming to people
when they land on your project on GitHub
or GitLab or wherever.
So that'll be fun.
- Yeah, it's an interesting topic too
'cause as a project maintainer,
there's all this project level automation that goes on
and there are all these fascinating tools
to get parts of it done in different ways
and competing philosophies.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I know some of them because I fork different projects
and then I'll sync it or something
and it'll say that my automation couldn't run.
I'm like, well, that wasn't my automation.
But that's okay.
(laughing)
It's fine if it runs or it doesn't run.
I'm just here to follow.
But before we get into all that,
maybe let's just do a quick recap
for those listeners out there who don't know you.
Maybe what's the elevator pitch
and what have you been up to the last six months or so?
- So I've been working in the Python world
for a very long time.
I don't know, 20 years now or something crazy like that.
But my day job is at edX, which is part of 2U now,
a learning tech, education tech company.
And I do open source logistics there.
edX.org runs open source software
that we've created called Open edX,
which also runs a couple of thousand other sites.
And my main job, day job, is making sure
that that collaboration continues well
between the people inside to you
and the people out in the community.
So it's an interesting dynamic of open source.
But on the side, I also maintain a number of projects
including coverage.py, which has been going for 18 years now
and is used by a lot of people.
So that's a whole other kind of open source
that I do in the Python world.
- Yeah, that's a really rewarding job, right?
It's not optimizing ad clicks
or other things like that, right?
- Right, it's a noble goal.
We're educating the world and we're giving away software
to help other people educate the world.
So it's really good.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And, you know, and speaking of open source projects,
I think we might touch on a couple more of yours
as we get going.
- Indeed, yeah, they tend to multiply somehow.
I haven't learned my lesson yet.
- Yeah, just got these puppies running everywhere.
- That's right, exactly, they breed.
I don't know when it happens, they breed.
- Exactly.
All right, well, let's start off with one.
I don't know if you're familiar with this, readme.so.
I don't know what the so stands for,
but I think of this as readme as a service.
- Interesting, yeah.
Or stack overflow?
No, .so isn't stack overflow.
I don't know why they chose .so.
- I don't either.
The woman who maintains it works at GitHub,
I'm pretty sure.
We're gonna find out when I get to the bottom.
But so I don't think it has an association
with stack overflow, but.
- Right, and it's usually two letters or country codes.
And I don't know what SO stands for.
- I don't either. - As a country.
- Sorry, .so folks.
But this place, readme.so, it says,
this is the easiest way to create a readme.
Now, before we get into the details of this,
maybe we should just talk about,
let me pull up coverage,
coverage.py on GitHub.
Not to put you on the spot or anything,
I don't mean to do that,
but let's just talk about,
what kind of stuff should you put on your project?
And like I said, we're gonna have to expand a little bit.
Like for example, there's tags and there's a link
and there's should you have releases shown
and other stuff that you might kind of think of
what you get when you land on a project.
So maybe start there with kind of how you think about
what should be here
and then we'll talk about some of the tools.
- Sure, so I think the first thing your readme should do
is say what the project is.
And that's sometimes difficult for people
to wrap their head around.
And it really gets at one of the fundamental problems
of writing almost anything,
which is you have to decide who you're writing for.
And it's hard to know who might show up
on your front page of your GitHub project.
And you don't know what they already know.
And so you don't know what you have to tell them.
So it's a little bit tricky
to get all that information out there.
But for instance, under about here,
it says the code coverage tool for Python,
which was the sort of pithiest shortest description
I could come up with to say, what is coverage.py?
And I think that covers it pretty well.
I don't try to explain what code coverage is
'cause that's a topic you can Google for
if you don't know what it is.
But so that covers it. - If you don't know
what it is and you don't know you want it,
you might not care about this.
So that's not your audience, right?
- Right, why are you here if you don't, right, exactly.
So-- - But go ahead and start
on your way out the door, please.
Thank you very much.
- Right, exactly.
Yeah, by the way, I could use a bunch more stars
on coverage.py because it's not a JavaScript project
and it didn't start on GitHub.
So it's a little low on stars.
But so yeah, the readme, so I try to say what it is
and then how to get started on it.
And I think those might be the front, the top two things.
I've got a thing there about Ukraine and badges,
which we're gonna get to, but it's sort of,
there's the first paragraph there,
coverage.py measures code coverage,
typically during text test execution.
So it tries to give sort of a little bit deeper
explanation of it, what you can run it on
and then getting started.
there's a for enterprise thing there
the links off to Tidelift.
But then the getting started tries to be very quick about
you just wanna try it, here's some commands you can run
to see how it works for you.
'Cause a lot of people, they just wanna get going.
And if you can give them a quick instruction,
then they'll be really happy.
- Yeah, often four or five lines of code,
here's how you use my thing.
Do I put a decorator onto a function and it does caching?
Do I await a database call?
Or what am I doing with this thing?
You don't have to be super complicated.
- Right, and sometimes it's not even clear.
Some people forget to mention,
is this thing an application or is it a library?
Like just the big picture.
Like as a developer, you can be so in the trenches
with your code, you forget.
People don't know what it is yet, like what shape it takes.
Now my readme is pretty short
and actually the getting started
doesn't show the commands that links to the getting start,
the quick start section of the docs,
and the change history links to a separate part of the docs.
So it's actually a pretty short readme.
Some readmes can be very long, a little overwhelming.
You have to scroll past all the getting started
to get to the change history.
For instance, I decided to take a different approach,
which was to make it almost like a table of contents
to the places you might wanna start in the larger docs.
- Yeah, that is a decision you have to make, right?
Do you try to put enough in there
that it's basically standalone in a sense,
or do you encourage folks to find their way
over to a much more holistic sort of place?
- Right, yeah, and that's an information
architecture problem.
You know, the thing about writing a good readme
is it's documentation, and documentation
has challenges all of its own
that most developers haven't been trained in formally.
It's not really their first interest.
It involves thinking about other people,
which let's just say some developers aren't skilled at.
- So the curse of knowledge, right?
Once you know what code coverage is,
you don't feel the need to explain it or set the state.
You're just like, well, we want code coverage.
Of course you do.
And here's the tool, you know?
- Right.
Yeah, so it's hard to decide what words to put in there,
how much to say, how to organize it.
Those are all real challenges.
- Yeah.
Well, it's quite popular with 7.5 million downloads a week.
Is that what it's up to?
Yeah, that's what it says.
Right.
That's what it says.
And it supports all the versions of Python, even the fast one.
So that's cool.
Yes.
Well, it's interesting.
So this is a point we might get to later.
So you're looking at the Python versions
it supports on the badge.
Yes.
But if you actually read the text,
it's actually mentioned-- which goes up-- the badge goes up
to 3.11.
The text says it goes up to 3.12.
right? Alpha, yeah. Alpha 2. And that's because of how the badges work. And there's reasons why
people don't like badges because of that. But badges look cool. So you want to put the badges
in. What's going on here is that the badges show the status of the latest release on PyPI. And so
they're not in sync with what's in the repo. And it's kind of a challenge to figure out what you
want to do about that, unfortunately. Yeah. I do see though that you are a believer of badges.
You know, I kind of got into badges. There's, what do we got on screen here? Six rows of badges,
which honestly is a bit much and I should probably, I mean, it's just kind of a mosaic of
green and blue at this point. But I'm kind of excited to see that you have a Mastodon badge.
That's the newest one. I put a Mastodon badge on there, exactly, because that's the new
crisis is moving from Twitter to Mastodon.
I'm finding Mastodon to be a really nice place.
I mean, sort of sidebar for a second.
How are you thinking about this whole Twitter, Mastodon,
open source community on social media?
Yeah, I'm looking at it as an opportunity to try out Mastodon.
And the thing that's really struck me about Mastodon
is how many names of bloggers from 20 years ago
I'm seeing again on Mastodon that I had lost track of.
and thinking like, oh yeah, I used to read that guy's blog
20 years ago and now we're connected on Mastodon.
And so we're kind of resetting back
to a more distributed personal style of communication.
Twitter was great in that everyone was in one place,
so it was kind of easier to find people,
but Mastodon feels a little bit more like old internet.
- Yeah, it feels like open source.
- Yeah, social media. - Social media.
not just the fact that the underlying code is, but the philosophy of the federation and the
different servers and the different small groups. >> Right. There's some downsides to it too.
The server I'm on had some downtime while they were rejiggering all their infrastructure because
they suddenly had 30,000 users. And all right, I can do without Twitter/Mastodon for six hours
Well, they figured that out and then they're back and we're going so yeah, I'm gonna go for a walk or get some work done
Yeah, exactly
Awesome. All right. Well, that's a cool badge. We'll come back to badges
Later, I think that that sets the stage one more thing before we get into some of the tools
There's places like I think Cohen CSS might
Might
land in this realm and
The tail is just too popular search.
Let's see.
Just the Tailwind CSS, please.
Or I know Poetry,
I can't do that alone, but Poetry with Python.
If you go to their websites,
they've got like a fancy website.
- Yes.
- You know what I mean?
- I see some open source projects,
like Vue.js maybe is like this,
where it's almost like there's a marketing landing page
for the project. - Yes.
- And the newer ones, of course,
It is, that'll have like a dark mode button.
How do you think about this?
When you see this, do you like, oh, I need to do this?
Or is this kind of?
- No, I've never been tempted to build a page like this,
partly because I don't think I have the skills
to build a page like this.
And the things that I make are aimed at developers.
I mean, you're showing a poetry page,
landing page here, which is also aimed at developers.
But I guess my feeling is developers don't need,
that kind of flash.
And honestly, if people use a different thing
because it's flashier, that's okay.
I'm not out to corner the market.
- It's not JavaScript code coverage.
- It's not JavaScript, that's right.
But also I think sometimes it can be a little misleading.
And just to go back to Mastodon for a sec.
So one of the problems that people have with Mastodon
is that they have to choose a server.
And that's the first choice they have to make.
and it's a difficult choice because it's unfamiliar choice.
If you go to joinmastodon.org,
it's a flashy site with, you know,
cartoon elephants and things on it,
and it looks very easy,
but then the first button you have to pick
presents you with a choice that's hard.
- Here's your thousand choices.
Pick one. - Yeah, exactly.
- Don't get it wrong.
- You know, it might've been less cognitive dissonance
if the page looked a little bit harder
so that when you got that choice,
you knew what you were getting into,
it would kind of ease you into that hard choice.
I can see, actually, I hadn't looked at the page
in the last few weeks, they've actually changed it
from choose a server to create account, which is good.
Because that feels more like what you're doing
is creating an account rather than choosing a server,
but you click create account and you're on the page
it says servers, which, oh well, they'll smooth that out.
They'll smooth that out.
- You know, people used to be confused by Twitter.
We figured it out.
- Yeah, I know.
But I agree that it's an interesting marketing
angle for software, which is a little bit weird.
- Right, now, but I should say,
so coverage.py does have a mascot,
which was drawn by my son.
And so it's got that cute aspect to it,
but not the whole page isn't cute.
And actually, you're scrolling it on the screen,
I'm noticing the mascot isn't on the GitHub page.
If you go to the docs, you'll see the mascot there
in the upper left.
Sleepy snake, yeah.
So I've got a little bit of that,
but that's because I've got a son who can draw like that,
and he made me a mascot.
If he hadn't done that, I wouldn't
have anything cute on the page.
>>Luis: Yeah, covered with a blanket.
Got it.
>>Tom: Yeah, he's relaxing because he
knows his tests are all covering his product,
and he's sleeping well.
>>Luis: Beautiful.
- Okay, well, I think that sets the stage
for this conversation pretty well.
Let's talk about ReadMe as a service.
Have you played with this any?
- So I haven't played with this.
I tend to be very low tech in the way I approach things.
You know, edit some text files,
build some tooling to make the result you want
and get going.
So this looks like a good way to get started.
Like if you don't know what to do,
this looks like a good on-ramp.
So it looks great.
If that's the way you like to approach things,
definitely do it.
My philosophy is any way you can get a good readme
is a good way to get a good readme.
So if this is gonna help people, then I'm all for it.
- Yeah, it's not something you tie into your readme.
It's a web app, and it looks like one of these
marketing page, landing page builders.
So on the left, it's got a bunch of different sections.
Like you can drag them in.
So you drag in the title and description,
you drag in the acknowledgments and fill it out
and it will create the skeleton markdown
and then you just take the markdown and run with it.
But it gives you a lot of structure.
Like, well, here's how a lot of people
put their author acknowledgments
or here's how they put their example code or FAQ.
- Right, and if this is, so I haven't played with it,
but if the output of this is a markdown file
that you then own and edit later on,
this is just a sort of a quick start templating thing.
- Great. - I'm pretty sure
that's how it works, yeah.
- Any way to do it.
I'm personally always a little bit skeptical
about new tools that I have to keep in my tool chain
and keep working and hope will remain maintained.
I like, personally like low tech approaches.
Like I said, if I have a text file that I can edit,
great, I'm all set.
So I like that this tool is a way to get started,
but then gives you the text file that you then own.
- Yeah, exactly.
So when you're in a section, you just
are working on these various pieces.
It kind of is like a function.
I'm just editing the internal-- but it puts it all together
in a whole thing, and you get just a raw markdown
with a copy button.
And it seems pretty neat to me.
Yeah, it is neat.
Because some of this stuff can be overwhelming.
I mean, markdown syntax is designed
to be as straightforward as possible.
But once you get to badges, which
are images with alt text with links,
the syntax is no longer simple.
And it's hard to remember how to do it.
So having a way to mash a button
and have a badge show up on the page, great, let's do it.
- Yeah, yeah, so this was created by Catherine Olsner,
Olster, Olsner, and yeah, she works at GitHub.
So that's pretty cool.
But yeah, it's just basically a start from scratch
and generate if you don't have a good example.
So I kind of like that one.
- Yeah, and GitHub as in general,
is one of their philosophies is we'll make on-ramps
for people to do open source, right?
And like they've got in their documentation and their help,
they've got how to use a console,
which isn't their problem to solve,
but they know that people are stuck getting into GitHub
if they don't know how to use the console.
So they're teaching people how to use the console.
They've got choosealicense.com
because people don't know how to choose a license
and they need to in order to do open source well,
and so on and so forth.
So I love the on-ramps
that GitHub has built for these things.
- Yeah, and just the community as well, right?
You know, if you put your time and energy into this,
there's a chance that people will come along,
appreciate what you've built and contribute to it, right?
- Right. - As opposed to.
- It's a social coding site, that's their tagline.
- Yeah, that definitely is.
They seem to be living up to it.
Okay, another one.
- Yeah, this is the other end of the spectrum.
- This is the other end.
There's a couple of other ones here.
This is from Henik.
This is your fancy project deserves a fancy pants
read me based on hatch or with hatch.
- Right.
- Yeah. So what do you know about this one?
Have you done anything with it?
- Well, so I looked at this a bit
and this looks like I said the other end of the spectrum.
So readme.so is kind of a visual graphical way
to get started.
This thing by Hynek Slavak is a templating tool
where you can automate the putting together
of your readme from different bits of information
from all over your repo.
And it is a little bit overwhelming how much is there.
You look at the examples and you're editing .toml files
with five dotted nested sections
to get the right pieces in place.
And I totally understand this
because I have built tools like this too,
where I thought you're a developer,
you can write me a regex
when it comes time to tell me what to do.
So I totally understand this and I need to look more at it
because it looks like it solves some problems
that I might be facing myself.
And my own, like if you look at the coverage.py repo,
there's a lot of custom tooling to do these sorts of things.
And if I can find other people's supported tools
to do the right things, I would like to use them.
I mean, like I said, I tend to spawn new side projects
when I need tooling,
but that's not a scalable solution to things.
I should use other people's tools more.
- If they built some good ones that are out there.
So here, let me see if I can find a section.
There's a little part.
- And the impressive thing,
so when I first came to this,
I thought I haven't heard of this
Hatch Fancy PyPI Readme project,
but under showcases,
the black Readme is built using this tool.
And that's a fine credential right there
that the Black Project is using it.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- As well as a bunch of others.
- Yeah, Structlog and Jason Skianut.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so maybe I could read this one paragraph
and this might give people the sense.
Do you want your PyPI readme to be the project readme,
but without badges followed by the license file
in the change log section only for the latest release?
Well, you've come to the right place.
So it's like.
- Yeah, he's got this whole assembly line model
of there's already a bunch of information out there.
So don't copy it around, don't try to write it in two places
instead have a tool, pick up the information
and then put it together into the readme
which is what you want.
And I totally understand that because I've got some,
I've done some of that kind of tooling myself
in my projects so that I can put a piece of information
in just one place and then it goes to where it has to go
to be read.
- It's a bit like a static site generator.
- A bit, a bit.
The thing I still haven't wrapped my head around here
is that what feels like it could be one template.md file
or something that says, grab this from there
and that from there is instead
in your pyproject.toml sections.
So you don't end up with sort of what looks like
a readme.md file with call-outs
to where the information should come from.
It's pieced together from the pyproject.toml sections.
- I see, the Toml lets you reach
into the different segments.
- Right, right, exactly.
Yeah, and I understand why he's taken that approach
because the pyproject.toml is there
and this is a Hatch plugin,
so he's already got access to that information
and it's bolted into the process
of building the distribution,
which is the exact best time to build the README.
So it's cool that he's explored it this way.
I have to take a deeper look at it
to see if it would fit in with my workflow.
I don't use Hatch.
- Yeah, Hatch is nice and Hatchling is nice.
And I've done a little bit of work with it.
And I can see why if you're already working in that mode,
how to kind of extend it.
- Absolutely.
Yeah, one of the problems with coverage.py,
which is my main side project is because it's 18 years old,
there are bits of it that are using
the latest greatest technology as of 15 years ago.
And because it's just kept working,
until it breaks, I'm not gonna go and fiddle with it,
or until I'm interested in fiddling with it,
I might fiddle with it.
But there's a lot of stuff that's just old and weird
and just keeps rattling.
- For such a highly used project,
I can see the danger here, but have you considered,
or have you run it through things like Flint
to convert all the strings to f-strings?
Have you, or some of these like upgrades
to the latest idioms where you can say,
I want it to be three, seven and above,
and anything that's older than that, you know,
kind of rework it.
- I have used PyUpgrade on it when I dropped 2.7,
which was a couple of years back,
and there are now f-strings all through it.
But for instance, I don't use Black.
There is a pull request to add type annotations to it,
but it's a big project that doesn't,
it's not gaining the momentum it needs to get done.
So I tend to let sleeping dogs lie where it's working.
Or if I don't, I don't know what I'm gonna get out of it.
For instance, I use opt parse
to parse the command line arguments,
and that wasn't even the right thing to use in 2.7.
That was the old thing that arg parse replaced.
But it still works, it's still in there.
Parsing's fine, you know, so.
- Yeah, yeah, sometimes there's no value in
possibly adding bugs to something
that you don't intend to touch at all, right?
- Right, exactly.
- Now, maybe if you were to say,
we're gonna really dramatically expand the way
that it can take arguments and do things.
Well, then maybe all of a sudden you are like,
we could get more flexibility with the new thing,
but if you're not gonna touch it, then just let it be.
Yeah. - Right.
- All right, let's get to the next one here.
Shields.io.
- Yes. - If you want a badge,
come to the place. - Shields.io,
they will make a badge for you.
And this, Shields.io is a very impressive service,
I have to say.
because they give you lots of ways to make badges
including ways that I didn't even understand they could do.
I found this out when actually
when I made that Mastodon badge
that you can tell shields.io to go and grab some Jason
from some other website and extract data
from that Jason response and include it in your badge.
- So you just call the Mastodon API public API
to get stuff about your account and pull it.
- Yeah, so if you look at my Mastodon badge,
which is on github/nedbat or on the coverage.py page,
it has my count of followers,
and that's coming from a JSON response
from the Mastodon API on my server,
on my Mastodon server,
and then shields.io is incorporating that number
into the image that it then serves to GitHub
to display into the README.
I don't wanna think about how many computers
are actually involved to get that stupid number
on that page, but it's very impressive.
- I think it's cached somewhere.
- I hope so, I don't know.
- How interesting.
- Yeah, but they've got a bunch of these--
- So we can put all sorts of things, right?
Yeah, go ahead.
- Yeah, they've got a bunch of these prebuilt badges
that can tell you all sorts of things.
Like, you know, what version of your project
is current on PyPI and what Python versions it supports
and what your license is and all sorts of things.
It's very impressive.
- Yeah, and it supports not just Python,
but I saw Node.js, NuGet, PowerShell.
- Yeah.
- Stuff that I don't spend as much time on over here.
- Yeah, there's things I've never even heard of
that it shows here.
- Of course there are.
- And some, it doesn't even,
they don't even document all the things it can do.
I mentioned earlier that the badge on the PyPI page
will show the status of the latest PyPI release,
which means if you go back 10 years to the coverage.py,
you know, version three release,
there's a badge on it that shows you
that it supports Python 3.11,
because the badge is showing you the most recent release,
even though you're looking at the badge
on the 10-year-old release.
There's a syntax in shields.io that will let you say,
show me this factoids as of this particular release 3.0.
- I see. - And they don't document it.
So I didn't realize I could do that.
So there's an awful lot going on in shields.io.
- Yeah, so if you want a shield for one of those little
badges for basically anything,
these are got downloads, users,
tests, coverage, all these things.
There's just a, basically they give you a URL, right?
That you put in into your readme
and that becomes the badge as it resolves, right?
- Right, the URL returns you an image
with the information on it that you want.
Either information that you put into the URL,
you can just make a URL that says,
Michael Kennedy is cool.
And it will return to you an image that says,
So, you know, it'll just format things for you,
but it also has ways of getting information
and then formatting it to give back to you.
- Okay.
You probably could put this personally onto places,
not just on your project,
but maybe on your GitHub profile potentially.
- Absolutely.
Yeah, my GitHub, we-
- Like a social.
- I'm embarrassed to talk about how over-automated
my GitHub profile pages.
(laughing)
- I love it.
All right, shields.io, that's a section for the live badges.
This one is hot off the presses.
Let's see if we can find, oh, it says initial commit.
We got it 10 days ago.
Will McGuigan of Rich fame.
- Rich and textual.
- And textual, yeah.
Put out a tool to generate a GitHub flavored
FAQ.markdown document.
- This is pretty neat.
- Yeah, and this is a tool,
I just took a quick look at it.
It's in a similar vein that you want to make
little bits of information in a convenient way
and then have it published
as a monolithic piece of information.
In this case, he's talking about FAQ questions.
And I think he said somewhere here,
"I got tired of answering the same questions over and over,
"so I made a tool to make an FAQ," or something like that.
So, and I don't know, I don't have the same problem
of needing FAQs produced or why it's easier
to put them all in separate little files
that are combined together later
than just editing one big FAQ page.
But Will's a smart guy.
He must've had a problem and he solved it with this tool.
And it's cool to see.
- Yeah, it is.
And this is a little more similar
to the way you described how you might see
building up the readme.
Instead of defining an automa file,
reaching into a giant document,
have a bunch of small ones that get assembled
into a result here.
- Right, and that's a lot like some of the
changelog management tools that we're gonna get to also.
- Yeah, one of the things that prompted Will to do this,
he says here is,
people will ask the same question over and over
and he in issues and he's like,
you know, I can't, I just can't answer it again.
how to make a table, or can I make it?
Yes, you can make a table.
Here's the link, whatever that is.
So it has fuzzy matching on suggest.
So I think this is why it's separate
'cause you can put alias questions
to the frequent question.
And then you can just on the terminal,
on the shell, you can say factory suggest.
And if you have some kind of input to it,
like I took the question that somebody asked me
I want to point them at the thing so I can just jam that into the terminal.
And it'll go, actually, that matches over to this FAQ response.
I see. Yes. And he says that it's designed to be used with a GitHub action
to post an automated response on an issue.
I guess that's the point is that if he's getting a ton of issues that all need to be answered,
instead of saying, go and read the FAQ,
he's automated the process of putting the answer
right onto the issue, which is cool.
I didn't realize that aspect of it, so that's very cool.
- Yeah, so this is all of 10 days old.
People can check that out if they want.
- Hot off the presses, torn from today's headlines.
- Exactly.
We talked about contributions
and how people appreciate getting credit
for participating.
I'm sure there are people who have closed a small issue
or found and fixed a small bug in coverage.py
or added a small feature and feel really proud of that.
But they would feel more proud if you acknowledged
that they did it.
- Yes, they do.
- I accept your PR, right?
Of course.
So tell us about this all contributors.
- Yeah, so this is a GitHub bot that on an issue,
you can say, add all contributors,
add Michael Kennedy to the bug fix sections of the contributors because he did it right
here in this issue that we're talking about. And that's really cool because it, you know,
when I, so I don't, I don't use this tool. I, like I said, I tend to be very low tech. I do
acknowledge my contributors. I'll mention them in the change log and I have a contributors.txt
file that lists everyone who's contributed in some way. And I will hand edit that. And it can
be a you know I have to remember to put it over there and put it over there I don't get so many
contributions to coverage.py that it's a burden and I kind of actually like that little sort of
moment of zen of you know finishing the paperwork and you're crossing the t and nodding the eyes
but if you're on a big project where you are getting a lot of contributions I could see how
doing this with a bot would be you know save you that little bit of work that that could become a
big amount of work and you don't want to skip it, right?
Because like we said, it seems like a small thing to us
and maybe like, eh, I don't want to have to bother,
but it's a huge thing to the contributor
to have their name mentioned.
- Yes.
- Yeah.
- And maybe not just pride,
maybe they get a job because of it, right?
They can say, I'm getting hired to work on Flask.
Look here, I'm listed as a contributor on Flask.
See, that puts me above 99% of the other people applying.
- That's right.
- The internet is the kind of place where you don't,
when you get a little connection like that,
you never know what it's gonna lead to.
- Yes.
- There's all sorts of things that pop up
because of the strangest little mentions.
You might get invited to be on a podcast
just because someone mentioned
one of your dopey little tools on that.
- Or you might even start a podcast.
- You might even start a podcast.
Yeah, watch out.
There's danger ahead.
- Then you're really in for it.
So the way that this allcontributors.org bot
seems to work, I don't use it personally
'cause I don't have projects that are big enough
to really justify this in terms of open source projects,
but in the comment on an issue or on a PR
or one of those types of things,
you can just say @allcontributors,
please add @, GitHub name of contributor,
and then it says for design or for bug fixes
or for documentation, and then the bot says,
added them as contributor.
That's really cool.
- Yeah.
Yeah, so like I said, I have a text file.
One of the unusual things I do with my text file
is that when I build for coverage.py,
when I build the release,
if you go and look at who the author of coverage.py is,
it says Ned Batchelder and 137 other people.
And that number, 137, is counting the number of lines
in the contributors.txt.
'Cause I want it to be clear that, yeah, it's not just me.
there's lots of people helping with this
and you can help too.
- Yeah, especially over 18 years.
- Well, yeah.
- All right.
Getting to the part of expanding beyond just readme.md,
but the broader experience of things
that maybe gets their way pulled back into the readme
is a changelog.
- Yes.
- Are you familiar with keepachangelog.com?
- I am very familiar with keepachangelog.com.
- All right, tell people about this.
- So keepachangelog is basically an advocacy site
that says you should really have a change log
and here's what we mean by that and why should you do it.
And I absolutely agree with the idea of keeping a change log
which is a running history
of what has changed in your project.
And that's because people that your users want to know
what's changed.
I mean, it sounds really simple, really basic
but I think people can approach it in really simple ways
that aren't as valuable.
And if you put a little bit more work into it,
you'll find it's really, really valuable.
- Well, and you need to know as a consumer of a library,
is there an immediacy to this new version
that I need to pay attention to?
Is there a risk to this new version
that I should be aware of?
Or do I don't care and I just leave my thing pen
the way it was before, right?
If it says there's a CVE,
where if we send the dollar sign,
it takes over your server,
Like you should get in there straight away.
- Yes, exactly.
- Exactly.
- But if it says we deprecated this thing
that you were depending upon,
like, well, don't just push it.
We're gonna need to think about this.
- Right, and I think the way you just described that
is really good, which is that the user of the tool,
the library, the application,
they wanna understand, you know, what's in it for me.
Like from my perspective,
what has gone on with this library?
And I think that's one of the things
that's difficult for people is,
for maintainers is to put themselves in their user's shoes
and think what's changed about this that matters.
There are some auto-generated change logs
that for instance, just put all the Git commit messages
in the change log.
And those drive me nuts because they're telling me
all sorts of things that I don't care about.
I don't care that you restyled,
changed all the spaces to tabs in some file.
That doesn't matter to me.
That's just noise.
You're hiding, you're burying the lead
by telling me stuff that doesn't matter.
So Keep A Change Log is a good, like I said, advocacy site.
They have their guiding principles.
Change logs are for humans, not machines, things like that.
And they advocate for marking your commits with,
or marking your change logs,
putting them into sections of what's been added,
what's been changed, what's been deprecated,
so that people can zero in on what matters, right?
Deprecated means I can't use the thing anymore
and I need to make a change.
And security means I really better get on this
or I might be in trouble.
So it's good to highlight those things
and put it into the user's perspective.
- Yeah.
I like the guiding principles here about it's for humans,
every version should have one,
the release date should be specified.
It's easy to just say, well, version 2.1,
have these changes.
Like, well, wait a minute,
- More than three, like, was that last week
or five years ago?
I need to know the relevant. - Right, put in the date.
Date things.
I mentioned my son doing art.
I always told him when he was a kid,
put the date on the picture so I'll know how old you were
when you made the picture and you never wanted to do it.
But change logs, you can put dates on things.
Like you said, you don't know how long ago something was.
- Yeah, you don't wanna have to go back
and diff the thing to figure out when it was committed.
- Right.
- All right.
And we've got one chat from a viewer
talking about creating change logs,
like as a good job for AI.
And these days, I don't know, 2022,
not only is Twitter versus Mastodon,
but chat, GP, what's it called?
The AI thing? - GP3, I think.
- Yeah, that seems to be amazing.
And I can probably retire soon
'cause it's gonna do my job, I think.
- Yeah. - I don't know.
- Just yell commands, just yell stuff at the computer
from like the couch.
- Computer, no website. - Just make it better.
- Scale the website computer.
(laughing)
- Exactly.
Yeah, no, that's a good point.
And Mary out there says it's called Skynet.
There are some amazing tools, like bit of a diversion,
but there's like this thing called Jasper,
a friend just told me about.
And what you do is you write,
it's like Google Copilot for writing content.
And there's just a bunch of crazy, crazy things out there.
- Yeah, it is.
We've seen a complete change in the progression of things
and it's astounding.
- It is.
All right, well, let's get to one of the first tools
that got you recommended.
The reason I invited you is because I asked people
for general recommendations
and they kept recommending your tools.
I'm like, all right, well, I should just have Ned
go on the show to talk about this.
- Yeah, I'll just come and talk about all of it, sure.
- All right, so we saw the keep a change log ideas,
but that's in theory, not in practice, right?
- Right, the keep a change log just says,
look, you should write this stuff
and here's how you should write it.
It's not a tool, it's just encouraging people
to do a good job.
Excuse me.
So I looked around at tools when I wanted to get people
to make better change logs.
And there was one called Town Crier
from the Twisted project.
and they solved the problem that a lot of change logs have.
So if you just have a change log file
and everyone who makes a change to the code
is supposed to put an entry into the change log file,
then that file becomes a merge conflict every time, right?
Because I added a feature, I put my thing at the top.
You added a feature, you put a thing at the top
and it's a merge conflict.
Years ago at work, what I tried to do
is have a change log file and I told developers,
put your change near the top of the file
in the hopes that they wouldn't merge conflict.
And developers would come to me and say,
What do you mean by near the top of the file?
Because they're engineers, they need precise directions.
So, okay, that wasn't gonna work.
So the idea that Town Crier uses,
and also the CPython source code has a thing called blurb
that does the same idea,
which is when you make a change to the code,
you also write one small file,
which has just the entry for the changelog in it.
And you check that in, there's a special directory
that just has those little fragments in it.
And so when you make your code change,
you also add a fragment to that directory.
And then later, when it's time to actually put everything,
you know, make a release,
all those fragments can be concatenated together
to become the changelog.
And the good thing about that is that
you don't have merge conflicts
'cause everyone creates their own fragment.
They have, you know, unique names based on some principle.
And then at publication time, you know,
when the release is made,
they can get concatenated together.
And like I said, Town Crier did this
and Blurb also did this.
I looked at them and they were both a bit more opinionated than I wanted.
I knew that if I was going to get a lot of people to use this thing, that it needed to be very, very flexible.
And I actually took an approach when I was building Scriv of,
"What's the least opinionated I can be? How many different ways can I let you decide how you want it to work?"
At the time, Black was rising in its popularity and it was famously opinionated,
And so I sort of took the opposite approach.
- Nice.
- Yeah, so Scriv, Scriv's idea is that it's got
a few commands you say Scriv create to make a fragment,
Scriv collect to collect them all together.
Those are the two main ones.
- Scriv looks like, it looks like a great tool
and it looks like one of these things
you could pipx install.
- Yes.
- Because you're not gonna, it's unlikely
you'll depend upon it for your code to run.
You just need that command around to manage a project.
- Right, or you can put it into your
development requirements.txt,
however it is you manage your project tooling.
But sure, pipx would work too.
And it's actually grown one other command
for making GitHub releases.
So it will actually parse your changelog file,
even if your changelog file wasn't made by Scriv,
it will parse your changelog file
and then create a GitHub release from your changelog file,
which gets at a philosophical opinionated point of mine,
which is that the information should live in just one place
and that place should be a file that you check into Git.
It should be a file that people can clone
when they clone your repo.
If they wanna just look at the changelog
in Emacs or whatever locally,
they should be able to do that.
And since you don't wanna duplicate information,
but people do seem to like having GitHub releases,
publish a GitHub release based on the information
from the changelog file,
rather than having the release be the source of truth,
where it can't be cloned, it can't be edited,
it can't be, you know, there's no commits
that you can track to see who put that text there,
those sorts of things.
- Okay, yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Let's see, out in the audience, we got another question.
Last changelog I read was for Python 3.11.
Did you read that?
It's a bit of a novel.
- Well, yeah, so the CPython developers
have taken to heart the idea,
and I make it sound like this is a recent development,
they've always done this.
You know, Python 3.11 has a what's new in 3.11,
and they tend to be very, very detailed
about putting stuff in the what's new document.
And like I said, they've got their own custom tool
called blurb, which is how CPython core developers,
they write what are called news entries,
which get created as small files in a custom,
in a dedicated directory,
and then those get aggregated into the what's new document.
- Yeah, in that changelog, there's 180,000 words.
Typical novels like 80,000.
So that's a proper changelog right there.
- Yeah, there's more information there
than any one person needs,
but everything that's there, someone does need.
- That's right.
And each one of those links to like a GitHub issue
or a PEP or something like that.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
And there's a lot of those.
I just noticed, I think it was today
that they got GitHub issued number 100,000
in the CPython Depot.
- Oh, wow. Okay.
That's major.
- Yeah.
- And since it's been chugging along for a while.
All right. So this looks like a great idea.
What do we got up next?
Oh, I just also wanted to just give credits
because I'm getting credit from Colin Sullivan
who sent this in amongst some other things as well
over on Mastodon.
So thanks for sharing that.
We got, this is another one, I'm gonna go quick
because it's not a Python tool and it's actually
in a technology I've never heard of.
Maybe you've heard of it, Ned.
- So I hadn't heard of this.
So this is called ChangeLog Manager from Masukomi.
And it's interesting.
He, Masukomi, is one of those bloggers
from 15 or 20 years ago that I'd lost track of
and suddenly got reconnected to on Mastodon.
And when I asked about, I got a little petulant
mastodon about a changelog that I found completely useless and he chimed in with a long thread about
how aggravated he is by changelogs and how hard it is to get people to do them well and pointed
me at this tool that he had written about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it looks like a cool tool.
People can check it out if it works well. It's written in a language called or technology called
Crystal. I feel like I don't, I don't know, it makes me feel old all of a sudden not even know
that that's a language. I don't know. But wait, hey, look, Colin's out in the audience. Hey, Colin.
>> Hi, Colin. Thanks for the recommendation. You got me on here.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So anyway, this is a cool project here. And people can check it out. And
And yeah, it's got a lot of the philosophy
of how you should do it,
how you shouldn't just have commit messages.
I remember hearing about tools that would look for swearing
and other kinds of frustration in commit messages
and not allow those particular messages
to get into the changelog.
- Yeah.
- But I don't think that, as you pointed out already,
that individual commits are generally the right granularity.
- Right, commits definitely are not.
Some of these tools will aggregate your pull requests
to be the change logs.
And that's a little bit better
because they're larger grained.
But even so, I think there's real value
in hand curating your change log.
Start with a list of pull requests,
but then take a look at it, reorder them
so they make some sense and tell the story.
If you have three pull requests--
- Put the important stuff on top.
If you have three pull requests,
which just by coincidence all changed
how you handle file matching, then make an entry that says,
we changed a bunch of things about file matching
and then have sub bullets about the file matching changes.
You want to explain things to people
and you're gonna be able to do a better job of it
than your pull requests or your commit messages.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, well, thanks for that, Colin.
Executable books.
Executable books, folks, are interesting.
They've got a lot of tools
that will take Jupyter Notebooks and other things,
using the Mist plugin for markdown and generate books
in different ways.
And so they've got this project called GitHub Activity,
which generates a simple markdown changelog based on that.
Let's see.
I think this is on issues and PRs not, not commits.
- Yeah, I think this is one of the ones
that goes for the larger chunk bits of information.
Which like I said, is good.
Commits are too small.
It's still, the issue is still that
when you write a pull request,
what you're writing about mostly
is something that your reviewer needs to read, right?
So you're really addressing your collaborators
rather than your users.
I mean, ideally your pull request
would include all of the user consequences as well,
but it's also gonna talk about
what your collaborators need to know.
So different audiences, different information.
At the very least, it's gonna need an editing pass
in order to figure out how to actually explain this
to people the right way.
- Well, that's an interesting idea.
Maybe the tools don't have to be perfect.
Maybe they could say, well, here are the 10 things
in terms of PRs and issues that have changed.
Now just rewrite that for humans with a different audience.
That's something we've got.
- Yeah, collecting up all the information, that's great.
I just think it needs a human touch.
I know that's controversial in these days of AI,
but I think humans can do a good job writing stats.
- Indeed.
As we say, get a copilot, write me a, no, whatever.
So the next one we come to is Dinghai?
- Dinghy.
- Dinghy, okay, dinghy, got it.
Just like the little boat thing.
- The little boat, that's right.
Yeah, so this is a tool that I wrote,
and it's interesting because when Colin mentioned this
as a tool for changelogs,
it didn't, that's not why I wrote Dingy.
Dingy is designed to give you a daily digest
of GitHub activity, which by the way,
is why it's called Dingy, because the DI stands for digest
and there's a GH in it, which stands for GitHub.
And I looked through words that had those pairs in them
and Dingy popped out.
- It's got a Y, which is like half a Python for Python.
- Yeah, and then you can backfill the marketing slogan
of your lifeboat on a sea of information
or something like that.
- There you go, I love it.
- So Dingy just gives you a digest
of your GitHub activity.
I was finding at work that I had to track
lots of issues and pull requests,
and there were lots of repos
where I wanted to know what was going on.
And so I found it useful to just summarize the activity
on issues and pull requests across repos.
And it's just a great-- - This is nice.
- Yeah, in the morning, take a look,
what happened in the last day?
Oh, I should dive deeper into that
when I can click into it and go read the real issue.
But you just can get a quick overview.
But I can see how, so I use it sort of on a daily basis,
but I could see how you could take this
and get a digest of the last three months
and then use that as at least a guide
to where to get the information for a changelog,
if not, you know, pulling information right off of it.
- It seems real helpful if you work on a team,
especially if you're the team lead
or kind of a manager type and you're like,
all right, just need to see what's happened
on these three projects this week.
- Exactly. - Just hit it.
- Right, that's what it's for.
And it's satisfying to hear people
think of other uses for it.
That's the sign of having built a useful tool
is that I meant it for one thing,
but then someone else sees,
oh, I could use it for that too.
And that's very gratifying.
- I can see it at the end of a sprint,
like a sort of postmortem burndown type of thing.
- Yep.
- Yeah, okay, cool, cool.
You mentioned Blurb.
I'll just put a link to the Blurb project, the tool as well.
This is the CPython prolific writer.
- Yep, yep.
This idea of building the changelog from small fragments
is something that's happened a number of times.
And I think it's a great idea.
I think it's the right way to do this kind of work.
- Yeah, agreed.
One that comes, is this GitHub itself that does this?
No, it is not.
There's a thing called release drafter
and it drafts your next release notes
as PRs are merged into a master.
Okay, so I haven't used this, but...
- And this is another case of things
going into GitHub actions.
And I'm fascinated by this whole thing,
as a project maintainer,
I feel like there's sort of three large buckets of work.
There's the building, the product itself,
I don't mean product to sell,
but like coverage.py is a product.
- Yeah.
- There's maintaining the test suite for it,
which is if you've got a large test suite
is a whole endeavor all to itself.
And there's all this project automation,
you know, that we've been talking about here today.
You know, how do I get the releases made?
I've got a make file, what this command,
how do I bump the version up?
Like all of that kind of,
and it feels like micro automation.
You're doing it like one shell command at a time
or a 10 little Python, 10 line Python file or something.
And the fact that there are all these tools around
that help with it and put it in GitHub actions.
And you just, you make a GitHub, a Git tag
and suddenly it goes to PyPI
and publishes the GitHub release and all that.
That's, it's fascinating to me
how far you can automate those processes.
- Yeah.
And they, they kind of build up like a snowball
going downhill pretty quick.
It's like, well, if I could automate this thing
and that thing, they're like, wait a minute.
Now we just, they click together and then it's.
I'm a late adopter of technology.
I won't automate a thing until I know
that it's exactly the way I want it
and I've gotten completely sick of doing it by hand.
But the good news is by then,
I do know exactly what I want it to do.
And so I can build the automation
and I don't have to come back and fiddle with it too much.
- Another big benefit I would say to that approach
is every time it runs,
it could just warm your heart with a joy.
Like, you know what, I hold another two hours,
I didn't do that thing.
- That's right.
- No, the downside is when it does the wrong thing.
So this weekend, I actually had a big weekend this weekend,
I released 1.0 of both Scriv and Dingy
and the first beta of coverage 7.0.
And it turns out that the links to PyPI on the readme,
no, the links to my documentation from the PyPI readme
are broken because they don't work if it's a beta release.
And I didn't know that until the release was published
and betas happen so infrequently,
it'll change again before I make another one
and it'll probably be broken too
because it's hard to test this kind of automation.
Like the good thing about building the product
and building your test suite for the product
is that that is automation you can run the crank on
and you know if it's working or not.
Releasing projects, if you build automation for that,
how do you test that release happened correctly
other than actually making a release
and then getting bug reports from people
about the 404s on your PyPI page,
which is how I found out about this.
- Yeah.
- It's a little frustrating, but.
- For as much fantastic testing software and automation,
sometimes you just gotta hold your breath
and push the button.
- Yeah.
Well, you're not gonna write a unit test that says,
"Let's push this thing to test.pypi.org
and see if all the links on the read me are right."
That's, I mean, maybe you, I guess you could, but.
- You could, but.
- Has anyone done that?
- If anyone's done that, please get in touch
'cause I messed that up this weekend.
- Yeah, at some point you gotta go,
okay, we've tested enough, it's gotta go.
And even if you write a unit test,
it's not necessarily exactly the same.
- Right, it's not the same and you'll fiddle with it
and break it, which is what happened to me.
And I don't know.
- Yeah.
- There'll be another release, it's fine.
There'll be another release.
We'll get it fixed.
- Yeah, all right, you mentioned Town Crier.
- Yep. - Already,
I think maybe we can just carry on,
but people can check that out as well.
You know, I guess, give them a quick shout out as well
while we're here.
This comes from the Twisted project, you said?
- Yeah, and Twisted is another of these projects
that's been going for a very long time.
So this is a mature tool.
It's just a little bit quirky
in the way that they wanted to do things.
I think, at least when I first looked at it,
it was something like the fixes went into a .fix file
and the features went into a .feature file,
things like that,
which just, and it didn't do markdown,
and I knew that I was gonna have people
who needed markdown, even though I prefer restructured text.
So I built Scriv to kind of along the same ideas,
but in a more flexible way.
- Right, okay, cool.
One of the things you may have in your readme
or other parts of your documentation,
your markdown files, or restructured text, I suppose,
would be example code.
Like I talked about that.
It would be nice to know some level of correctness
to that, right?
- Yes.
- We have MK test docs.
Tell us about this.
- So this is one of these things
that's the interesting thing to me is that you've got docs,
you've got tests, you've got doc strings,
and there's all these tools
that do all the different pairings of stuff, right?
So you can run tests against the code in your doc strings.
This runs pytest against markdown files
that have code in them,
so it's running the code in the markdown files.
And it's fascinating, again,
to see how all of this automation,
this project-level automation,
comes together to try to close all those little gaps.
Like I mentioned the problem of a broken URL on my README.
You could also have code
that you had typed into a markdown file,
and it turns out it doesn't work for whatever reason.
Maybe it worked once, something changed.
this will run the code in your Markdown files
so that you know that it still works, which is great.
- Yeah, and even if you don't--
- I'm also more testing.
- Yeah, well, even if you're not actually
trying to execute it, and like I'm asserting
that my example returns seven,
because maybe it says connect to a database
and do other crazy stuff,
it could at least be syntactically valid, right?
It could look at it and go, I loaded that up
and I parsed that function and it didn't die.
That's a start.
- Right, exactly.
There's levels of testing.
And like you said, it can get very complicated
to do full testing of some kinds of code.
- So how do you test your markdown, your readme.md?
Well, see, I fire up a series of,
a cluster of Docker containers using Docker compose,
and then we can run the one example, and then it's good.
- Right, if there's a tool out there that launches missiles,
I don't wanna know how you're testing the code
in your readme.
- Yeah, there's another one that's a little bit tough
One of the things that's interesting, by the way,
this tool comes from Vincent Wormadem,
but it deals with multiple code blocks.
If you do the language specifier in Markdown,
so the triple dot backtick,
then you say the word Python or JavaScript or C# or whatever,
that'll tell the formatters,
format it like this.
It's this type of syntax you should see.
If you do the Python one,
it will run those and also do bash as well I believe.
But what's interesting is you could have,
like here's how you set it up and then here's how you call it type
of series of code blocks and it will run all the code blocks,
or you can actually say,
remember what you saw before because that was
the first half of what you need to do the second half.
>> Yeah. Because you're trying to tell a story.
This is like a Jupyter Notebook where you're interspersing
code with commentary and then more code.
You need the multiple blocks of code to all be executed
together or one after the other.
You need the first one's results in the second one.
>> I certainly appreciate that.
Don't completely repeat yourself every time in your code example.
>> Right.
>> You get started by importing this,
and then you would create a class like this that it derives from.
You wouldn't want to have to have import,
import, import over and over.
So, yeah.
Yeah, this is cool.
I don't use this one either,
but it definitely looks like something I could see adopting.
Now, here's something called Shed,
which is not exactly what I want to talk about,
but it's for formatting code.
So it runs Autoflake, it runs PyUpgrade.
You mentioned that before, I believe, for upgrade.
You can specify a version, PyUpgrade me to Python 3.8,
but not further, please.
- PyUpgrade is good.
>> Yeah. It runs black.
But what I do want to talk about is it runs black in docs.
>> Which formats the code in the doc strings and in your docs.
>> Yes.
>> Which again is one of those pairings of,
let's put this tool into that thing and have it do just a little bit.
>> Yeah. I would say this is super hard to get
just right because you want to format code.
you know, one of my markdown editors,
if I highlight some code and I hit shift tab to unindent,
it'll put everything just to the left.
I'm like, no, no, no, no, this is Python code.
It has to have the space.
You can't just put it all the left,
like undo one level, right?
Things like that where it's just like,
oh, this is not quite formatted right.
Just running this, maybe even as a pre-commit hook
would be glorious.
Just like all of my code in my examples
my triple back tick Python becomes black, blackened.
>> Yeah. If you're using black,
then you really want it everywhere.
You've given up control of the formatting of your code willingly.
You see the value of it and you just want it everywhere.
This is great for getting it into your docs too.
>> Exactly. There's gaps.
Maybe your Jupyter Notebooks don't have black formatter.
Get it in there, get it into the docs, get it everywhere.
Yeah, I'm getting rid of me. Cool.
Let's see this one.
Yeah, another person gave a shout out
to your next project here.
This is Cy Gallimardi said,
"Hey, we should check out Cog."
- Cog, yeah, Cog is one of those tools
that I wrote a very long time ago
to do one particular thing.
And it ended up being useful in lots of other ways.
Basically Cog is a way that you can make a text file,
like a readme.md and put little bits of Python
in the middle of it,
not because you're trying to display that code to people,
but because you want the results of that code
to be part of your document.
- A little bit like a Jinja.
- Right. - A template maybe.
- Exactly, but it's a little bit backwards
because Jinja starts with the idea,
I mean, Jinja is, well, it is like Jinja actually.
I shouldn't say that, it's just like Jinja.
- But if it were in HTML, you want it to be--
- Right, it can be anything you want.
Jinja is particular to HTML in some ways,
but Cog is completely agnostic.
The bigger difference from Jinja with Cog
is that the output of your code can go into the document
so that you process, you run the document,
the output of your code becomes part of the document.
So sort of the input file and the output file
are the same file, so that you get sort of an item potent
kind of processing of the file.
So you can have a readme.md.
you run cog on it, you still just have a reading.md,
but now you've got the results of the computation
in the file.
So for instance, I use this in the coverage.py docs,
there's a database schema for the SQL lite data file
that coverage.py writes, that schema is in a string
in a Python file someplace,
but I also want it to be in my docs.
So I use cog in the restructured text file
to go and get the string from the Python code
and splat it into the restructured text file
so that I know that the two are the same
because there's one source of truth
and an automated process to bring it
into the restructured text file.
- You know how they say there's like two hard problems
in computer science, naming things,
cache invalidation, and off by one errors?
- Yes.
- I feel like maybe a fourth one should be identifying
and controlling and keeping the one source of truth.
One source of truth is a big thing with me
about all of these kinds of processes
where you want to make it convenient to write information,
but you also want to make it convenient to read information.
And so you might want to publish information
in more than one place.
For instance, I mentioned that my changelog
is in a .rst file, but it also goes into GitHub releases
because people want to read it in GitHub releases.
So I get the information out of the changelog
automatically publish it into GitHub releases. Yeah, and cog has found a lot of use. Simon
Willison has been very positive about cog. He uses it in a number of places to keep his
documentation up to date. I've used cog to an extreme extent in my GitHub profile to,
for instance, grab information from PyPI where I mentioned what my projects are and things like
like that.
- Yeah.
- So yeah, COG is one of those things that started small
and it's just has chugged along for a long time
and I continue to find more uses for it.
- Yeah, that's great.
Colin says, "Using COG to document CLI tools
is chef's kiss."
- Very nice.
Wow, that's very nice.
- All right, let's, we're getting to the end here.
We're almost out of time,
but luckily we're also almost out of things to talk about.
We're not out of them, we're stopping.
- There's a lot, there's a lot.
This is a small sampling.
- But here's one by Haideng,
that's awesome tools for the readme profile.
So this is a lot of, let's do the test,
click on their profile and see how it looks.
You know what I mean?
- Yep.
- Ah, got it, got it, get a little more in there.
So this is more of a collection,
but we have readmes for projects,
but also reading is for humans, right?
You know, I thought you go to my account,
you'll see a particular thing.
Some people have really, you know,
fancy that up with lots of things.
And this project here talks about,
well, what kind of cool stuff can you put on there
that people might see?
I haven't looked at yours recently.
What's your profile look like?
- Well, so it's not as visual as this.
It has a few badges, but I used Cog to, for instance,
pull in the six most recent blog posts onto my page.
- Okay.
- I wanted to do recent tweets,
but that was gonna be hard because Twitter API
wanted me to authenticate,
and half the time I turn away
when I'm asked to authenticate against the thing
'cause that's the hardest part of the whole thing,
and it takes away all the fun.
But so, the main thing I used Cog for,
I used Cog on my readme,
and one of the things I did with it
was to write Python code to generate that markdown syntax
for badges and to put together shields.io badge URLs.
So both of those things are complicated, right?
Shields.io is amazingly powerful,
but how you actually put all the bits of information
into the URL is hard to get right.
And it's fiddly, there's like ampersands
and you have to quote them in the markdown or something.
- It's like a regular expression, yeah.
- Yeah, I mean, it's too intense.
So I wrote Python functions
to put together shields.io URLs.
And then I called those Python functions
from the cog code in my readme.md.
And there's a GitHub action that runs the cog on it.
Whenever I publish a blog post,
my blog publishing triggers the GitHub action
that recalcs my GitHub readme.
So the latest blog post is on the top of the GitHub readme.
Like I said, you can take this a long way.
I might've gone too far with this.
- No, I love it.
- But it's cool to see how the tools can come together
and you can automate all of these processes.
Again, to go back to one source of truth,
my blog is the one source of truth
about what are my blog posts,
but the information is also on my GitHub readme
because I thought that would be a useful thing
for people to see when they look for me on GitHub.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
All right, so this project here is like
a whole host of things like that that you could do.
and I love the use of cog and the GitHub actions
just to bring them together.
- Right, the awesome tool for readme profile,
it's sort of like a blank catalog.
Like you might want to put this on your profile
or put that on your profile.
- If it was 1994 and you wanted a blank tag,
here's a whole bunch of it,
or a little animated diggy gif you could figure out.
So you get these graphs of like,
what were your last year of contributions over time?
or like when are you most likely to?
- Yep.
- Some more badges, like here's the latest blog posts,
which is a thing that people can pull in
if they don't wanna do more of it themselves.
- Yep.
- How much time you spent coding
in various languages per month or per week, weekly here?
That's pretty wild.
- Yeah, he's got a lot of things here,
like what you're listening to on Spotify.
- Yeah, do they have emails, one of your coding activities?
I spent a lot of time in email.
>> Are you typing code in your emails?
You might be doing it wrong.
>> I'm just spending a lot of time in email.
Wish I didn't. Okay. So it's got what time of the day?
Are you a morning person?
It has a snake game that goes around and races like a centipede.
>> You're right. This is very reminiscent of
the early GeoCities Internet where everything flashed and blinked.
looked cool and had contrasting colors and stuff like that.
- Yeah, so people, I mean, we're only like
a third of the way through this thing.
People can, they can give themselves trophies.
They can give themselves, I think this is Stack Overflow.
Yeah, Stack Overflow reputation.
There's just a ton of different stuff you can put together.
And I think it all comes back to, you know,
besides like maybe overdoing with digging animated GIFs
and Blink Tags, I think it comes back to
your GitHub profile is a little bit like your resume
and how much can you say more than just,
oh, I forked Django.
- Right, and you want, I mean, the point of the profile
is to let people know about you
and hopefully they'll be interested in you
in whatever way you want them to be interested.
So all of these things that attract attention
and you can choose something here
that sort of has your vibe in whatever way.
For instance, my page is very text heavy,
But that's my vibe, that's the way I am.
And if that's not for you,
then you should look for someone else's profile.
But if you wanna know what I'm listening to on Spotify,
then that's a thing to put on a profile page.
So it's great.
I mean, self-expression is a wonderful thing.
And the fact that GitHub lets you build your own profile
and that there are all these tools
to do whatever you want with it, it's amazing.
- It is amazing.
All right, I think this is probably gonna be it
for our final thing to cover in the read me and friends.
Let's close this out just really quickly with a,
give us the 7.0 story on coverage.
- Oh, coverage.py 7.0.
- Yeah, that's a big deal, right?
I mean, if you're gonna make that big of a number.
- It might not be a big deal.
This is a tricky thing.
So really what happened was I was looking through the bugs
that people were reporting
and a lot of them had to do with,
it couldn't find my source file
where I said it should put the source file.
And I was answering with, well, you have to do these tricky things in your configuration file.
And I thought maybe that should be simpler.
So really, the reason it's a 7.0 is because I made things better.
But I also think you might have to change your settings in order for them to still work the way they used to work.
So when you look at the change log for coverage.py 7.0, there's no like amazing, big thing.
The biggest feature change is that
when you get a text report out,
now it can be in markdown format
instead of in plain text format.
And that's cool, but that's not like a 7.0 level feature.
The real change is, I think it's gonna be better,
but a few of you might have to update your settings.
And I wanted to make it clear to people
that that was gonna happen.
So I bumped the number to 7.0.
- Yeah, well, that seems totally reasonable.
- Yeah.
- Still going strong.
It's beta one right now.
When do you foresee this becoming the pip install coverage?
- That's a great question.
I have to admit to be perfectly honest with you
that I have been disappointed in the past
at how few people try out betas.
So I'm putting this out there in a disciplined way
and I'm trying to talk about it, like go and try the beta,
but eventually I'm gonna get tired of waiting for people
and I'm just gonna publish it.
And if the bug reports come in then,
then we'll deal with them then.
'Cause there's only so much you can do
to get people's attention on a beta.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I can totally understand that.
All right, final two questions before you get out of here.
- Yeah.
- Write some Python code.
What editor are you using these days?
- Vim.
- Vim, right on.
- Yes.
And I do not have any code completion plugins.
- Okay.
- I'm very, I've said this before, I'm very low tech.
- Perfect.
And then notable PyPI package.
I kind of feel like we've covered a bunch,
but we did cover a bunch. - Anything you wanna
give a shout?
- You know, I've been very enamored of Rich, I have to say.
It's very cool.
I'm looking forward to hearing more about
what Textual is gonna be for building terminal UI
interfaces for applications.
But Rich is astoundingly competent at what it tries to do.
- Yeah, and what they're doing on the terminal
is just nuts.
- It is.
- It is. - Not in a good way.
- I only discovered just the other day,
maybe people don't know this,
that you can, one of the rich styles,
and this is a feature that terminals support,
and Rich is just tapping into it,
but it gave a convenient way to do it.
You can output text that's red or that's bold.
You can output text that's a link,
where the word in the terminal is just click here,
and behind it is the URL you told to have it,
and then you can click the link in the terminal
and go and visit things.
Us now.
I'm familiar with terminals detecting links,
but not having a different link text
than the actual link, right?
- Yes, that's what I'm talking about.
I didn't know it could do that.
- Yeah, that's nuts.
- Yeah. - Cool.
Well, that's definitely a good one.
All right, final call to action.
People are thinking about their projects.
I wanna get started with some of these ideas.
What do you tell them?
- Think about your users.
Think about who you're writing for.
And it's different people at different times.
And write words.
I actually want to say one more thing.
We talk about change logs as being really good
for the users of your library.
I find when I sit down to edit my change logs
that I understand my own product better
and that I think about the features I've built in a new way
and sometimes actually go back and change them
because in the process of trying to describe what happened,
I learned something.
Like writing for readers is great.
Writing, you will learn things when you write.
Write more, it'll be good.
- Yeah, I can definitely see that.
You're like, I want to say, but it doesn't quite do this
unless I change this other thing in code
and then it'll be true to what I tried, wanted to say here.
So yeah, perfect.
All right, Ned, thanks for coming back on the show.
Great to have you here.
- It's always fun.
- Yeah, see ya.
[BLANK_AUDIO]